.TH GC 1 "March 2026" "Ground Control 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gc \- AI agent task orchestration for vibe coding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gc
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIflags\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ground Control
is an agent-driven task orchestration system for solo developers who vibe code with AI.
A Taskmaster agent manages the flow, routing work between specialized agents and you,
ensuring nothing falls through the cracks.
.PP
Tasks have explicit outputs and verification requirements. Work isn't "done" until it's proven done.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B tasks
List tasks with filtering. Use \fB--all\fR to include completed tasks.
.TP
.B dump \fI"idea"\fR
Capture an idea to the brain dump for later processing.
.TP
.B create
Create a new task with Context Manager guidance.
.TP
.B process
Convert brain dump items into structured tasks.
.TP
.B orc \fI[task_id|#index]\fR
Run the orchestration pipeline on a task.
.TP
.B complete \fI<task_id>\fR
Mark a task as complete with verification.
.TP
.B standup
Run the daily standup ritual.
.TP
.B status
Show current session and pipeline state.
.TP
.B sprint
Manage sprints and sprint tasks.
.TP
.B brainstorm
Run an ideation session with AI assistance.
.TP
.B delegate
Delegate tasks to specialized agents.
.TP
.B handoff
Create handoff documents between agents.
.TP
.B consult
Consult a specialized agent for guidance.
.TP
.B tui
Launch the interactive terminal user interface.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GC_DATA_DIR
Override the data directory path directly.
.TP
.B GC_PROJECT_DIR
Set the Ground Control project root (data in $GC_PROJECT_DIR/data).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I data/tasks.json
All tasks with full context and verification requirements.
.TP
.I data/brain-dump.json
Raw ideas awaiting processing.
.TP
.I data/projects.json
Project definitions.
.TP
.I data/activity-log.json
Audit trail and AI-Matt training data.
.TP
.I agents/*.md
Agent instruction prompts.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Capture an idea:
.B gc dump "Add dark mode to the app"
.TP
List pending tasks:
.B gc tasks
.TP
Run orchestration on task #3:
.B gc orc 3
.TP
Run daily standup:
.B gc standup
.TP
Launch TUI:
.B gc tui
.SH ORCHESTRATION PIPELINE
The \fBgc orc\fR command runs tasks through:
.PP
.RS
Sanity → Coder → Reviewer → Tester → Commit
.RE
.PP
Each stage can pass, fail with retry, or escalate to human review.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Matt Mariani
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/mmariani/ground-control/issues
